In this video will cover some additional test cases
create students without grades init
verify students are prototypes,
and also finding grade point average.
We'll add this test here,
create student without grades init.
We'll retrieve another college student
directly from the context, the Spring application context.
And hmm.
That's red, can't resolve context. Oh.
I need to autowire the context.
All right.
So again, an example of where we need to
use the context directly.
And so here we'll actually autowire.
So I'll autowire the application context,
the Spring application context.
Okay, great.
So we've injected the Spring application context. Good.
So then we can go through
and actually retrieve some beans from that context.
And the reason we're taking this approach
is because that given college student is a prototype.
And so we want to get an actual new instance
of this given bean.
All right.
So we have a student two
I'll set up some info for this student.
Form some basic asserts here on some of the properties
and it also will perform an assert for the student grades.
Now let's go ahead
and run this test.
And this test passes successfully. Awesome.
And we'll add another test here to
verify the students are prototypes.
And just as a refresher here,
so we have a college student.
There's no annotation here for component at the top
but we manually define this as a bean
in our Spring Boot application
and we set the scope to prototype.
So we know that this college student is a prototype.
So every time we retrieve the bean
from the application context, then we'll get a new instance.
I'll just copy some of the code from up top,
student two.
So it gives us a new instance
of the bean because it's a prototype bean.
Then I'll see if this is the same as student.
So if student and students who are the same.
And remember the student field is autowired
into this test class.
Now, when we run the test, then this test passes as desired.
So this is great.
So these are not the same.
And this means that these really are prototypes
and we have one final test here.
We'll find the grade point average for a student
and I'll make you to this new item here assert all.
So basically allows us to perform multiple asserts as one.
And in this scenario,
we're going to test all the assert equals.
And for each one
of the assert equals you make use of a lambda expression.
We pass in the expected value
and then we give the actual value.
So student grades
add grade results for single class.
Student that gets student grades,
get math grade results.
Kind of fix up the parenthesis here.
Let's add another lambda expression.
And this is for the grade point average.
And that's pretty much it.
Let me fix the parenthesis, get everything all balanced
up and formatted accordingly.
Excellent.
Now let's go ahead and run this test.
We see the results and excellent.
This test passes as desired.
I like it.
Great. So just some really good examples here
of just showing you how we can make use
of that Spring Boot test, how we can inject spring beans
how we can access application properties
and also make use of some of the normal JUnit asserts.
So I like to say good job, my friend.